yo how's it going everyone welcome back
to another YouTube video so in this
video we're going to go over the best
network settings that reduce your buffer
blow improve your hit registration lower
your ping and lower your Jitter so we
want to go over all the way from stuff
within your windows like your network
adapter driver your network adapter
properties and some of these network
settings within your windows and then
also some router stuff that helps a lot
and it's going to beat the majority of
where your performance differences come
from in terms of network latency so
let's get right into checking our before
and then later we're going to do an
after test to show the differences
between unoptimized and optimized after
this video so let's get started so I'm
going to leave two links in the
description one to Cloud ping. info
which is just a ping test that pings all
these different services from different
servers and it shows you the Ping to
different regions in the world so that
and then the second one is going to be
buffer bloat test which shows your
internet speed and your buffer bloat
which is just Network latency under load
that's what buffer blow is it's
basically just latency the router starts
doing stuff and you want that obviously
as low as possible if there's extra
buffer blow whenever your router is
doing stuff you're going to get issues
in game but let's get started with the
HTTP ping test so we're going to click
HTTP ping it's going to start pinging
all of these different servers and for
guys that play fortnite you're going to
look for the one in Dallas and that's
going to be all the way around IBM which
is going to be right here so as you guys
can see I'm getting around 30 ping which
is basically what I get in game in
fortnite now there's other server like
San Antonio and all that I'm not going
to get into all that but the main server
is Dallas so you're going to look at
that and as you guys can see I'm in in
around 29 Ms which is also what I get in
game so that's kind of accurate then I'm
going to go to the buffer blow test and
this is going to be pretty bad for a lot
of you and pretty bad for me just
because I have everything set to default
to show you guys the crazy difference
between doing this video and not doing
it so let's do this test and let me just
skip over to whatever it's done as you
guys can see I'm getting a buffal blow
grade with a AC which is pretty bad you
at least want an A on this or an A+ if
you're not getting that then your router
is kind of bad so the reason why I'm
getting to se is because my router is
set to complete default I do have a
really good router I just need to show
you guys what I do in that router in
order to get an A on this test as you
guys can see it's basically our Baseline
and if we look down here we can see our
Jitter which on active which is download
whenever we're downloading stuff our
Jitter maxes out to 30 MS which is
pretty high and then whenever we upload
stuff stuff AKA editing in game or
pressing keybinds or just doing anything
that requires uploading packets we're
getting a Jitter of 75 Ms which is
complete garbage so let's get started
with optimizing everything so we can
close out at both of these just remember
what score you got so you can compare it
with at the end so you going go to
Snappy driver installer origin and we're
going to use this tool to update our
Network or Wi-Fi drivers so if you are
on Wi-Fi a lot of this video is not
going to be applicable except the router
stuff and this step so just try to
follow what you can otherwise the
ethernet adapter settings you can't
really copy that just because you are on
Wi-Fi now if you are on Wi-Fi I'd
recommend going to the link down below
and buying a powerline adapter or just
buying a long cable and plugging your PC
into your router being wired solves a
lot of your connection issues the reason
why Wireless sucks is because it's
unstable and whenever there's a lot of
stuff blocking the signal you can get
stuff like packet loss ping spikes and
just all these other problems that are
just related with unstable internet so
make sure to get unwired if you can't
there's stuff like power line adapters
or just take the L and go move your
router or just stick with Wi-Fi it is
what it is so we going click on Snappy
driver installer origin version right
click on this click extract files it's
okay it's going to make a folder you're
going to find that folder double click
on it double click sdore Auto wait for
this to pop up press accept wait for
this second thing to pop up it's really
important that you guys wait once this
pops up click download indexes only and
just let that do its thing so as you
guys can see these are all the drivers
that can be updated on your PC now just
a quick warning for everyone do not
check any drivers that you don't need a
lot of these drivers are pointless or
they're going to cause issues so a lot
of people for some reason whenever I
show this tool they click select all and
start downloading all the stuff for no
reason don't do that just clicking
select none and we're going to scroll
down we're going to find our Intel
ethernet controller or if you're on
Wi-Fi you're going to find the Intel WI
wireless adapter or if you're on real
Tech you're going to find real Tech
family controller or realtech gaming
controller just find something that
regards with your network adapter that
you are connected to so for me it's
going to be Intel ethernet controller
i225 DV and once I do find that I'm
going to I'm going to click on it check
it and I'm going to click install on the
left and so start downloading these
files in order to update that specific
ethernet controller now if you're on
Wi-Fi you would just do the same thing
and click install on the left all right
so once it's done it's going to tell you
installation completed all you got to do
from now is just close out of it now
we're going to go to device manager so
open up your start menu or your search
bar type device manager and then you're
going to open that up you're going
expand network adapters double click
Intel ethernet controller or if you're
on real Tech you will click real Tech
family controller double click on that
power management uncheck everything here
go to Advanced ARP offload disable that
enable pme disabled flow control
disabled interrupt moderation disabled
both of these ipv for Tex of offlow
disabled large send offload both of
these disabled them and NS offload also
disable packet priority and V you're
going to set this to packet priority
enabled selective suspend disabled TCP
and UDP checks I'm offload both of these
disable them then wait for link off and
all these other wcon settings disable
them these are just pointless and don't
really do anything and then for Intel
ethernet controllers only so if you're
not on Intel just skip the step open up
your search bar type reg edit open that
up and then you're going to click on hqy
local machine system expand that and
then you're going to expand current
control set is right here and then
you're going to expand control then
you're going to expand class now in
class you're going to find one of these
that ends in 972 in the first group of
numbers so as you can see this one ends
in 972 before the dash so that's what
you want to look for click on that
expand that and then through all these
Keys you're going to click on them look
at driver description and just match
that name with whatever Intel controller
you have so this one's not it if I
scroll down on this one as you can see
see driver description and tell
controller so this is going to be the
key that I'm going to find it in so I'm
going to click T and as you can see
we're looking for TX in delay double
click on that type zero and then press
okay that's what we're looking for in
this page then you can just close out of
that and then press okay open up your
search bar type control panel open that
up go to network and internet Network
and Sharing Center click on Ethernet or
if you're on Wi-Fi click on that
properties uncheck everything except qos
package scheduler and Internet Protocol
version 4 then click on Internet
Protocol version 4 click properties
Advanced wins and then just uncheck
enable LM host lookup and then net bio
settings set that to disable net bios
then press okay now DNS servers don't
really do anything for Ping or latency
or Jitter it doesn't do anything so any
of these videos that you're watching on
YouTube that tell you to change this
just ignore them they're complete BS
they're just trying to get views off of
you so just set this to automatically
just because 90% of the time your
internet providers already giv you a DNS
server that works best but if you do
want to use a custom DNS server just
click use the following and type
whatever you want but I'm not going to
go over that in this video just because
this does nothing to gaming ping and
performance so I'm click on that press
close press close again and then you're
going to go to control panel again go to
system and security Windows Defender
Firewall turn Windows Defender Firewall
on or off click on that and choose off
for both of these now if you're on a
laptop set this to on for both if you're
on a desktop and you're keep bring your
PC out home 90% of the time and set this
to off now if you're a security freak
and you're watching this video and I
know you're about to comment some crazy
stuff just before you do that watch this
real quickly look get off this YouTube
video this is not for you this is for
guys that play games and they want lower
ping better hit Rag and lower Jitter I
don't care what type of complaint you
have I don't care what type of oh it
doesn't do anything it doesn't do
anything dude if we don't use it we
disable it that's how we do things
around here so if you don't like that
you can just get out of here I don't
really make these videos for you we're
going to click okay on that after you've
done that now again if you care about
security just leave that enabled your
router has a built-in firewall so the
windows one doesn't really do anything
it's just kind of more of an annoyance
than a benefit anyways once you're done
with that now we can close out of that
now what you're going to do is you're
going to go to your browser and then
you're going to open up your search bar
type CMD and then that's typ ip config
as a command and it's going to give you
these properties default gway is the one
that we're looking at all you're going
to do is you're going to click on this
number and you're going to copy this by
typing contrl C on your keyboard and
it's going to copy it then make a new
tab in your browser paste it in here and
usually it's going to ask you for a
username and password type admin and the
password should be 90% of the time
password if it's not just look at the
back of your router back of your modem
and check what the default gateway
password is but anyways once you're in
here if you're on a netduma R3 router
all you're going to do is going to click
on PING Optimizer the bottom left and
click Advanced you're going to click
ping Optimizer mode set this to expert
and then you're going to pretty much
click on once you've done that go back
and then you to click optimize my ping
and what this is going to do is going to
test your ping and do optimizations in
order to lower it we're going to let it
do sting and I'm going to show you guys
the differences between a before and
after and I'm going to go over that in a
second so as you guys can see it's
lowered my ping by amount this much so
it's really nice we've literally reduced
our upload ping a lot which is where our
problems were arising that but for blow
test using this tool so I'm going to
click optimize now and as you guys can
see it's pretty much lowered our ping
completely so it's going to let it do
thing as you see Wi-Fi will drop while
we optimize your ping so I'm going to
let that do thing all right so once
you've done that now I'm going to open
up a tab again go to buffer blow test
same website as I Linked In the
description and once you've done that
click Start test and we going see the
differences right here so as you guys
can see it's dropped our upload active
latency to all the way down to Zer Ms
which is amazing before it was like 175
which is terrible so now we're at a B
but as you can see the download is a
little bit still up there so what we're
going to do is we're going to go to Ping
Optimizer Advanced and then download
under congestion control I'm going to
drop that down to around
95% and and see what I get now all right
as you guys see we got an A on the
buffer blow grade which is pretty good
as you can see now we're getting under
IDE the conditions uh basically not
everyone's going to get the check mark
right here so a lot of people worry
about this check mark just ignore this
unless you're on fiber this won't give
you a check mark which I don't know why
this literally just doesn't make any
sense cuz you don't need a lot of
bandwidth for gaming so as you guys can
see for Jitter dropped to 17.6 on the
download active and on upload which was
where our problem was we dropped down to
2.9 Ms which is insane so crazy
difference right there just from
optimizing our router settings and if we
go around here we can see that I did
have to drop the congestion control to
around 50% to get a but that's fine I
mean I'm only going to set conjus
control to Auto I would only recommend
using always on if you're running this
test right here so if you do have this
router or a net gear router or some net
Duma router set this to always on on
congested control mode just while you're
testing this then once you're done and
you got your settings dialed in set this
to Auto just so it applies whenever
you're gaming and doesn't apply whenever
you're downloading stuff because you
don't want this to cap your internet
speed whenever you're done but yeah as
you guys can see that's a crazy
difference right there look at cloudping
ninfo again and let that do his thing so
as you guys can see we got around 20 Ms
on Dallas which is pretty normal
practically around 10 ms lower give or
take now this could be variation but
either way Jitter and your buffer blow
is going to make sure that your ping
doesn't Spike and doesn't feel terrible
even though it's low so you want to
focus on this stuff rather than the Ping
cuz the Ping again it's just your
distance from the servers to your
computer so you can't really change that
you can try stuff like exit lag and
we'll be covering this in a second so
stuff like exit flag or changing your
internet provider but yeah as you guys
can see we've made it from a c to an A
Using just the network optimizations
updating our network adapter and
optimizing our router in order to make
sure that we're gain the lowest possible
latency with our configuration so that's
just to show you guys that it this stuff
actually works and it does help a lot so
now whenever I hop in game I'm not going
to get any of these pink spikes or
stutters or weird things that rubber
band me whenever I'm editing shoo
shooting or getting these blanks so
let's get right into basically what
other stuff you could do to possibly
lower your ping so if you're just
desperate to lower your ping and you
don't really have much options I would
try something like exit lag it's pretty
good I'm not going to lie it does do a
lot for a lot of people now again it
just depends on where you live your
internet provider now if you have a good
internet provider this usually doesn't
really do anything just because your
internet provider is already routing you
to the server the best possible way exit
lag if the internet provider is not
routing you the best way it'll route you
better so I would try out exit lag if
you are interested they do have a free
trial and again as I tell everyone if it
works pay for it if it doesn't work
don't pay for it as simple as that so
I'll leave a link to it in the
description exela is just one of these
things where you sign up for it if it
works it works if it doesn't it doesn't
a lot of these guys obsess over this
program and try to find the best
settings all this stuff guys there is no
best settings they already optimize it
out of the box just for you to launch
your game and then get better
performance if there is so the fact that
you're going through all these loopholes
you're just coping with the fact that
you have bad ping which it's fine but at
a certain point you got to give it up
now the other thing is moving or
changing your internet provider so
changing your internet provider can
actually help a lot believe it or not
some of these internet providers
completely just destroy your ping so
what I would recommend is stuff like
Verizon stuff that really is very low
latency and has good fiber so I will
test around with a couple of them you
could obviously just pick and choose
your network provider you could probably
test around different ones it is a bit
of a hassle but if you want the lowest
possible ping I would just switch
between Network providers in your area
and see which one gives you the lowest
ping and in some cases it drops it all
the way down by 20 ping so it's a worth
investment if you're a competitive gamer
if you're not then again this doesn't
really make sense anyways that's going
to be pretty much it for this video guys
hope you guys seen a difference in your
network performance hope you got lower
Jitter better hit registration and lower
ping if you have any questions drop them
down below I'll comment down if your
question is worth answering but it's
going to be pretty much it for me if you
guys are interested in full PC
optimization service where we go through
overclocking bio settings Windows
optimizations and all of that jazz then
go to the link in the description it's
going to be the first one the.net peace